---
layout: post
title:  "Commute"
permalink: /personal/:year/:month/:day/:title.html
type: Personal
summary: Randall heads home after a long day.
---

Streetlights flicker on over the bus stop. The LED smacks into the faces of all the people who stayed a couple extra hours at work just to get that one thing done that Jan asked for. Randall's in-ear headphones are too loud, but he already did most of the damage in high school, getting crushed in the front of punk shows without earplugs. The bus appears around the corner and slows down too early, Randall noticed, indicating an inexperienced operator. In the few extra seconds it took for the bus to reach the stop, Randall fantasized about the car he wanted to buy next year. He made sure to take a tiny step back and reach for his wallet with his bus pass in slow motion, maintaining eye contact with the operator, so they knew he would be a problem-free passenger. As the bus approached, Randall saw a woman in the front of the bus, positioned to exit (this is against protocol and irritated Randall). 

The operator made a judgement call, incorrect but admirable, to stop a few feet short of where Randall stood to allow the egress of the woman. Randall, respectfully as possible, stood outside the exit path of the woman and positioned himself to board immediately after. To his horror, though, as the woman made to step off, an oblivious worker drone appeared from his left flank and attempted to board the bus. The operator, quick to lose their temper, informed the fool that they were in the wrong. Several awkward and difficult to parse movements occurred, each infuriating Randall further, until the blockage finally cleared and he took his turn and stepped on to the bus. Angling his wallet onto the card reader and hearing the satisfying "beep", he gained eye contact again with the operator and tried to make a face that conveyed his amicability towards public servants combined with a mutual eye-roll at the hapless drone that did not understand the natural etiquitte of public transit. The driver returned his look with a blank expression of wearied friendly acceptance. Randall hoped his headphones did not make him look like he did not respect the driver, but the interaction had passed and he had already become focused on locating a seat.

The bus was close to filling its seats and a few passengers were already standing. Randall's goal was to get past the articulating section before the bus started to move, since there was a lack of handholds and the orthogonal pairs of seats in that section did not leave much space to walk. Randall recalled a particularly embarassing morning commute where the bus had started to move at just the wrong time and he fell in between eight knees to the disgusting ground, spilling his coffee. Two people tried to help him stand, but their movements were not synced properly and he fell again, stammering out apologies. Determined to preserve his dignity, Randall paused his memory and focused his attention on quickly walking past the twenty or thirty people buried in their phones or chattering inanities at each other. 

The bus started to move as he was in the middle of the accordion bellows, but this operator was as quick to accelerate as they were to decelerate into the stop, so he successfully made it to a handhold before the bus began picking up much speed. After stabilizing himself, Randall walked to the left side orthogonal seat in the back section, his favorite because of the privacy and legroom it afforded (and the fact it was relatively unpopular for others and he could find it often in crowded situations such as this). Thankful he was not forced to stand, Randall shimmyed awkwardly in his seat in an effort to extricate his phone from his overtight jeans that Matt in Marketing told him to buy. His hands went through the muscle memory of unlocking his phone and tapping into the social media site his brain unconsciously craves.

Scrolling through the posts, he read without thinking until he came upon an expressed political opinion that runs contrary to his employers stated company mission. He glanced around, realizing that the seating composition of the bus had changed in the past few stops, and that someone was sitting directly in the eyeline of his phone. Randall adjusted his viewing angle to prevent snooping, realized halfway through the motion that what he was doing could be interpreted as suspicious, then tried to play off the motion like he was stretching (he probably looked even more suspicious doing this). He dove into the political post, reading the replies and trying to decide if he agreed with the sentiment or not. The replies did not elucidate anything, but he found himself growing increasingly frustrated with this horrible plight he had just now heard about. He resolved to look into it more tonight, knowing he would probably forget. 

He glanced out the window and jumped in his seat: Lost in his thoughts of the important issue that affects many people today, he had nearly missed his stop! His hand shot to the cord and pulled a little too hard. He heard no tone and felt another jump in his heart before realizing the cord had already been pulled and the bus was slowing to a stop. Rocking back before propelling himself out of the seat, Randall tried to look cool. He judged the physics of deceleration of the bus and slight rightward pull into the stop and adjusted his movement, ambling to the back door with as much grace as he could muster. The door opened late, prompting an expectant and probably condescending glance to the front of the bus, but Randall thought to himself that the ride was actually quite satisfactory as he bounded out the back of the bus. He realized he had forgotten to check for cyclists coming down the hill on the sidewalk, and thanked his luck that he had not ran into one.

The walk was pleasant, but Randall was bored and wanted to be home quickly. When his key fob tapped the side of the door and he saw the lock unlatch, it was impossible to avoid a little sigh of relief.